api.markdown, before:

Authentication
==============

There are currently two schemes for authentication, which allows for a
versatile use of the API according to the user-agent of the client.


Cookies
-------

Using the `/login` page, the client can authenticate to the server, and is
provided with an encrypted cookie that uniquely identifies the client with a
server-side session.

This authentication scheme is for use mainly in a browser environment.


HTTP Basic Authentication
-------------------------

By providing credentials in the HTTP headers, the client can elevate the
privilege level of an individual request.

This authentication scheme is for use mainly in environments where managing
cookies is a pain, or where the number of requests made to the server is
limited.


Validation
==========

JSON schemas are used to validate both incoming requests and outgoing
responses, to ensure end-to-end correctness of the data.

See `json-schemas/README.markdown` for more information.


Dates
=====

All dates emitted by the API are UTC.

All dates consumed by the API must be UTC.


API
===

This sections gives an overview of each API endpoint. In should be consulted in
tandem with the associated JSON schemas.

Common
------

The following API endpoints do not require authentication as a specific type of
account. Both employee and manager accounts can access the following endpoints.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/details`

Get information about a business.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such business.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId`

Get the details of a listing.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId. (Manager only)
    * The listing was not dispatched to the employee. (Employee only)
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/departure`

Get the departure time of the employee.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not associated with that listing. (Employee only)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId. (Manager only)
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.
    * No departure time has been indicated yet.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/arrival`

Get the arrival time of the employee.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not associated with that listing. (Employee only)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId. (Manager only)
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.
    * The employee has not arrived yet.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/rating`

Get the rating of the employee associated with the given listing.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not associated with that listing. (Employee only)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId. (Manager only)
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.
    * No rating has been given yet.

### `GET /api/listings`

List all listings with the given status.

#### Parameters

* status (type: string)
    * List all listings with the given status.
* statusGroup (type: string)
    * A status group is an identifier that matches multiple statuses. The
        implemented status groups are the following:
        * open: "pending", "submitted".
        * active: "inProgress".
        * closed: "cancelled", "completed", "rated", "stale", "aborted"
* since (type: datetime)
    * List all listings created after the given date and time.
* before (type: datetime)
    * List all listings created before the given date and time.
* max (type: integer)
    * List no more than the given number of listings.
* createdBy (type: integer)
    * List only listings created by this business, identified by their
      businessId.
* dispatchedTo (type: integer)
    * List only listings that have been dispatched to this employee, identified
      by their employeeId.
* workedBy (type: integer)
    * List only listings associated with this employee, identified by their
      employeeId.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The query string does not conform to the schema.
    * No such status.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The result set contains entries that the account is not allowed to see.

Manager
-------

All the following API endpoints must be used from a manager account.

### `PATCH /api/business/:businessId/details`

Update information about a business.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such business.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/new`

Create a new listing.

#### Responses

* 202 (Accepted)
    * The request is submitted, but will be dispatched to employees in
    the near future. This is to allow time for cancellation.
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.

### `PATCH /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/details`

Update the details of a listing.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    No such listing.
* 409 (Conflict)
    * An employee has already been accepted to the listing.

### `DELETE /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId`

Delete a listing.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 402 (Payment Required)
    * A cancellation fee must be paid.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee`

Approve an employee to work a job.

If such a request is made twice, then the second request will fail if a
different employee is approved; approving the same employee twice has no
effect.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
    * An employee has already been approved.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee`

Get the details of the employee associated with a given listing.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/applicants`

Get a list of applicants for a listing.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such business.
    * No such listing.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/departure`

Indicate to the server at what time the employee has left. The indicated time
must be in the past, and by no more than 15 minutes.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
    * The indicated time is too far in the past.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * There is no employee associated with the listing.
* 409 (Conflict)
    * The status of the listing is not `"inProgress"`.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/arrival`

Indicate to the server at what time the employee has arrived. The indicated
time must be in the past, and by no more than 15 minutes.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The indicated time is too far in the past.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/rating`

Rate the employee associated with a given listing.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
    * The employee has already been rated.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.
* 409 (Conflict)
    The status of the listing is not yet "completed".

Employee
--------

The following API endpoints require authentication as an employee.

### `PUT /api/employee/:userId/location`

Update the current location of the employee.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that userId.

### `GET /api/employee/:userId/location`

Get the current location of the employee.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized ot use that userId.

### `PATCH /api/employee/:userId/details`

Update information regarding an employee.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that userId.

### `GET /api/employee/:userId/details`

Get information regarding an employee.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that userId.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/applicants

Apply to a listing.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The listing was not dispatched to the user.
    * The user account is not authorized to use that userId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
* 409 (Conflict)
    * The listing can no longer be applied to.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/rating`

Rate a job.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The user is not approved for this job.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such business.
    * No such listing.
* 409 (Conflict)
    * The status of the listing is not yet `"completed"`.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listings/:listingId/rating`

Get the rating of a job given by its employee.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such business.
    * No such listing.
    * No rating has been given yet.

Commit message:

indicate that the api.markdown specification is deprecated
the api.json specification is far more comprehensive, despite being
trickier to read, since it's JSON rather than prosaic markdown.

api.markdown, after:

Authentication
==============

There are currently two schemes for authentication, which allows for a
versatile use of the API according to the user-agent of the client.


Cookies
-------

Using the `/login` page, the client can authenticate to the server, and is
provided with an encrypted cookie that uniquely identifies the client with a
server-side session.

This authentication scheme is for use mainly in a browser environment.


HTTP Basic Authentication
-------------------------

By providing credentials in the HTTP headers, the client can elevate the
privilege level of an individual request.

This authentication scheme is for use mainly in environments where managing
cookies is a pain, or where the number of requests made to the server is
limited.


Validation
==========

JSON schemas are used to validate both incoming requests and outgoing
responses, to ensure end-to-end correctness of the data.

See `json-schemas/api.json` for details about the validation rules.


Dates
=====

All dates emitted by the API are UTC.

All dates consumed by the API must be UTC.


API
===

This sections gives an overview of each API endpoint. In should be consulted in
tandem with the JSON schema.

In fact, the JSON schema is now the authoritative specification of the API, not
the following. This document remains as is for historical/reference purposes.

Common
------

The following API endpoints do not require authentication as a specific type of
account. Both employee and manager accounts can access the following endpoints.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/details`

Get information about a business.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such business.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId`

Get the details of a listing.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId. (Manager only)
    * The listing was not dispatched to the employee. (Employee only)
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/departure`

Get the departure time of the employee.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not associated with that listing. (Employee only)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId. (Manager only)
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.
    * No departure time has been indicated yet.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/arrival`

Get the arrival time of the employee.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not associated with that listing. (Employee only)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId. (Manager only)
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.
    * The employee has not arrived yet.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/rating`

Get the rating of the employee associated with the given listing.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not associated with that listing. (Employee only)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId. (Manager only)
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.
    * No rating has been given yet.

### `GET /api/listings`

List all listings with the given status.

#### Parameters

* status (type: string)
    * List all listings with the given status.
* statusGroup (type: string)
    * A status group is an identifier that matches multiple statuses. The
        implemented status groups are the following:
        * open: "pending", "submitted".
        * active: "inProgress".
        * closed: "cancelled", "completed", "rated", "stale", "aborted"
* since (type: datetime)
    * List all listings created after the given date and time.
* before (type: datetime)
    * List all listings created before the given date and time.
* max (type: integer)
    * List no more than the given number of listings.
* createdBy (type: integer)
    * List only listings created by this business, identified by their
      businessId.
* dispatchedTo (type: integer)
    * List only listings that have been dispatched to this employee, identified
      by their employeeId.
* workedBy (type: integer)
    * List only listings associated with this employee, identified by their
      employeeId.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The query string does not conform to the schema.
    * No such status.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The result set contains entries that the account is not allowed to see.

Manager
-------

All the following API endpoints must be used from a manager account.

### `PATCH /api/business/:businessId/details`

Update information about a business.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such business.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/new`

Create a new listing.

#### Responses

* 202 (Accepted)
    * The request is submitted, but will be dispatched to employees in
    the near future. This is to allow time for cancellation.
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.

### `PATCH /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/details`

Update the details of a listing.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    No such listing.
* 409 (Conflict)
    * An employee has already been accepted to the listing.

### `DELETE /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId`

Delete a listing.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 402 (Payment Required)
    * A cancellation fee must be paid.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee`

Approve an employee to work a job.

If such a request is made twice, then the second request will fail if a
different employee is approved; approving the same employee twice has no
effect.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
    * An employee has already been approved.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee`

Get the details of the employee associated with a given listing.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/applicants`

Get a list of applicants for a listing.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such business.
    * No such listing.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/departure`

Indicate to the server at what time the employee has left. The indicated time
must be in the past, and by no more than 15 minutes.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
    * The indicated time is too far in the past.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that businessId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * There is no employee associated with the listing.
* 409 (Conflict)
    * The status of the listing is not `"inProgress"`.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/arrival`

Indicate to the server at what time the employee has arrived. The indicated
time must be in the past, and by no more than 15 minutes.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The indicated time is too far in the past.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/employee/rating`

Rate the employee associated with a given listing.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
    * The employee has already been rated.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
    * No employee is associated with the listing.
* 409 (Conflict)
    The status of the listing is not yet "completed".

Employee
--------

The following API endpoints require authentication as an employee.

### `PUT /api/employee/:userId/location`

Update the current location of the employee.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that userId.

### `GET /api/employee/:userId/location`

Get the current location of the employee.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized ot use that userId.

### `PATCH /api/employee/:userId/details`

Update information regarding an employee.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 400 (Bad Request)
    * The enclosed entity does not conform to the schema.
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that userId.

### `GET /api/employee/:userId/details`

Get information regarding an employee.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized to use that userId.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/applicants

Apply to a listing.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The listing was not dispatched to the user.
    * The user account is not authorized to use that userId.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such listing.
* 409 (Conflict)
    * The listing can no longer be applied to.

### `POST /api/business/:businessId/listing/:listingId/rating`

Rate a job.

#### Responses

* 204 (No Content)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The user is not approved for this job.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such business.
    * No such listing.
* 409 (Conflict)
    * The status of the listing is not yet `"completed"`.

### `GET /api/business/:businessId/listings/:listingId/rating`

Get the rating of a job given by its employee.

#### Responses

* 200 (OK)
* 403 (Forbidden)
    * The account is not authorized.
* 404 (Not Found)
    * No such business.
    * No such listing.
    * No rating has been given yet.
